# Testing overview
Dragoneye has received both manual and automated testing.

## Application Logic
Application logic of Dragoneye contains extensive automated tests written
with jUnit 5. Most of them are integration tests that use embedded, in-memory
database. Some unit tests have also been written where integration testing
would have not made sense.

Manual testing has been done to ensure that serialization of application data
works as expected when said data is saved to disk, not just in-memory database.

Due to flexibility of Nitrite database, testing with a mock database has not
been necessary. Mocking has not been used for anything else, because its
benefits would have been outweighted by time it would have taken.

Most automated tests were implemented after the core application logic had
matured and was not expected to require large-scale refactoring. Implementing
the tests was combined with exploratory testing, which was a success:
bugs were found and fixed.

## User Interface
The GUI has been tested manually. Most code that does not strictly need JavaFX
has been decoupled from UI and is automatically tested. All features described
in requirements.md and usage.md have been tested and confirmed to be working.

## Testing Environments
Both automated and manual tests have been performed on a physical computer
running Linux Mint 19 and a virtual desktop running Cubbli. Exploratory testing
has been primarily done on the physical computer.

The application has *not* been tested on physical computers running Cubble.
Due to portability of Java, it should work just fine, though. Same goes for
other operating systems.

## Test Coverage
Total coverage of automated tests is roughly 80% according to Jacoco. See README
for instructions for generating a Jacoco report.

Most things that are not tested are <code>equals</code> and <code>hashCode</code>
methods generated by Eclipse. Some of them are used in integration tests, but
a few are not. In some cases, testing of simple getters has also been omitted.

Note that, as said above, GUI is not tested automatically. As such, it is not
included in Jacoco report.

## Known Bugs
There are no major known bugs. However, testing has revealed that usability of
the UI could be better. In particular, even more keyboard shortcuts could be
added.

On Cubbli, JavaFX may print warnings to console due to missing GTK modules.
This is a distro-specific issue that cannot be fixed without root access.
Nevertheless, the warnings should be harmless.